# Debye Integral Focal Region Intensity Pattern Simulator
By Logan Cropper


## Overview of Files
The following files are included in this repository:
- **run_simulation_fast.m**: Standard simulation function. Returns a 2D intensity slice (YZ plane) of the near-focus beam pattern with the given parameters

- **run_simulation_gpu_ultra.m**: GPU-accelerated version of the standard function. Use this whenever running on a system with a GPU, it can be orders of magnitude faster for large sweeps or high-resolution volumes.

- **run_sweep.m**: Runs a series of simulations while sweeping hrough a given parameter (This software was originally written to test annulus masking of lenses, so it's set up to sweep either the inner or outer annulus radius currently. The program sould be adapted to sweep other parameters). Returns a 3D volume of intensity slices where the 3rd dimension sweeps through the swept parameter. Outputs these results as a .mat file to be used by the sweep viewer.
    - To select which simulation method the sweep uses (fast or gpu_ultra), simply change which function is used on **line 99**.

- **sweep_viewer.m**: This script is used to open and sweep through one of the 3D .mat files generated by sweep_viewer. It provides:
    - A slider to sweep through the volume visually
    - Radial and axial plots along Y- or Z- axis lines chosen by the user (lower-right sliders)
    - Alternative viewing methods for analysis, including:
        - 2D FFT analysis: The main plot is replaced with a 2D FFT, and the axial and radial plots are replaced with FFTs fo their respective axes. Useful for finding periodic components in intensity patterns. Note that, in the radial plots, FFT axes are given in **spatial period** rather than spatial frequency for convenience's sake.
        - 2D Autocorrelation Analysis: Another method that can be helpful for finding periodicities, where the pattern is shifted and correlated with itself incrementally. Plots are replaced similarly to in FFT mode.

- **create_simulation_parameters.m**: Helper function for simulation functions. Sets up default parameters in case no alternatives are specified.

- **example_custom_params.m**: Provides some helpful examples on proper syntax for simulations.

- **PARAMETERS_GUIDE.m**: A detailed guide for the parameters that can be customized when simulating a beam.

## Notes on Customizing the Beam Profile
Besides the parameters described in the paremeters guide, there are a couple of other things you can adjust about your beam. These are edited directly in whichever simulator function you use. Both functions should be commented well enough for the lines you need to comment/uncomment to be clear.
- Select an aberrated or ideal lens: Uncomment the lines corresponding to your desired phi term (lines 52-57 in run_simulation_gpu_ultra.m)
- Select a Gaussian or plane wave incident field (lines 59-62 in run_simulation_gpu_ultra.m)
